Jonathan Figg: Okay, we're doing the take for getting in Washington. My
Jonathan Figg: Background is
Jonathan Figg: Just inconvenience.
Jonathan Figg: Time.
Jonathan Figg: Can you hear me.
Dottie Newton: I can
Jonathan Figg: Try that again.
Dottie Newton: Can you hear me.
Jonathan Figg: There we go. Wonderful. Hopefully my baby who just woke up from an inconvenient nap time. There is not to out in the crowd and Jason advance for that.
Dottie Newton: I was going to apologize for my Chihuahua likes to sleep.
Jonathan Figg: Just so you know, so that if you see it says recording we record all our session so that we can make our notes problems, but otherwise they stay confidential and Dr. Phil, nice to meet you.
Dottie Newton: Now let me ask question before I guess.
Dottie Newton: I had a call with Dr. Bill on Friday.
Dottie Newton: She did not know why I was referred to your clinic.
Dottie Newton: So I want to make sure you can help me with pain management. I'm not addicted to anything except probably my pain killers.
Jonathan Figg: Yes, ma'am.
Jonathan Figg: Yes, so I manage both people who just have opioid use disorder, what we would call dependence on opiates and I also manage people who have pain and often there is an overlap and
Jonathan Figg: Absolutely. So, so you were referred to us for pain management. So the kind of the order that we want to go through things is for me to understand what what you're in pain from in kind of the history on that.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, what's been done about that, leading to where we are now.
Jonathan Figg: And then we'll talk about what we can do.
Dottie Newton: All right. He just wants to start blabbering here.
Jonathan Figg: Well, yeah, go ahead and tell me. Okay.
Dottie Newton: It's it started in August of 2014 and I had a knee surgery.
Dottie Newton: The knee surgery.
Dottie Newton: Produced a severe infection that took within a month span three more surgeries. So within a month. I had four surgeries on many
Dottie Newton: And
Dottie Newton: That was my left knee.
Dottie Newton: So since then, I have been on oxy codeine and gabapentin
Dottie Newton: Um,
Dottie Newton: While I was in the hospital during my third surgery.
Dottie Newton: I fell and tore my rotator cuff.
Dottie Newton: And so then I have to have a surgery for that as well.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so that started initially you said in 2014 and a bunch of surgeries on your left knee in 2014. I'm just going to say it back to make sure I understand.
Jonathan Figg: So, and then, when did you hurt your shoulder.
Dottie Newton: The same year.
Dottie Newton: Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. And so what's kind of
Jonathan Figg: If, if you are still in pain. What is this
Jonathan Figg: Yeah. What is, what is the source of your current pain.
Dottie Newton: Um, I actually have been 36 hours without without oxy
Dottie Newton: Be
Dottie Newton: Fabulous. If I could stand up and walk. I mean, my husband or the grocery store today because I got
Dottie Newton: It sometimes it feels like a knife with every step going into my knee.
Dottie Newton: Um, it's, it's just ridiculous.
Jonathan Figg: So you have. Do you have continuing arthritis. Do you have a misalignment. Do you have what we call Complex Regional Pain Syndrome.
Jonathan Figg: What's the
Dottie Newton: Answer is yes.
Jonathan Figg: Right, so someone should have looked at that I told you I this is what we think is the source.
Dottie Newton: Well, yeah. They've done. I've had MRIs, CAT scans X rays. So right now, I've got bone on bone arthritis.
Dottie Newton: I'm
Jonathan Figg: Discussion of a knee replacement
Dottie Newton: There has
Dottie Newton: Been. I hope you
Dottie Newton: Hope you can understand my reluctance to do that after everything that's been done and nothing being done, you know, to me,
Jonathan Figg: I understand it's really I'm not an orthopedic surgeon. So I'm not here to persuade you one way or another on something like that. I just want to kind of understand the other work up because that certainly also should happen.
Jonathan Figg: Do you still have pain in your shoulder or is
Dottie Newton: The name.
Jonathan Figg: God, yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Just to me.
Jonathan Figg: And so forth. And you've been on Oxycodone and
Jonathan Figg: So I'm required to pull a prescription history.
Jonathan Figg: Excuse me for Washington
Jonathan Figg: And so it looks like you've been on the 15 milligram tablets four times a day.
Jonathan Figg: Right, okay. In addition to how much counter-offensive you take
Dottie Newton: And taking 800 milligrams three times a day.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, and how does that do for keeping you functional on able to do what you want to do.
Dottie Newton: I can't walk my dog around
Dottie Newton: That a little driveway. I just, I'm walking up and down, so he can do his business. But you know when I'm feeling really good. I'll go to the grocery store with my husband. I'm living in Republic, Washington. It's a tiny grocery store, so I can get around there pretty well.
Jonathan Figg: But
Dottie Newton: That's about it.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so, so you're certainly not as functional as you would like to be, but you are able to do some of your activities. I'll be with some limitations there.
Jonathan Figg: major issue being down been without oxy Cotto and so we're in withdrawal with me. Yep.
Jonathan Figg: Yes. Tell me about how you're feeling outside of your knee right now.
Dottie Newton: Um, yesterday, my husband and I were going through a couple issues so yesterday was a bad emotional day. Um, but my knees. I could hardly stand up on my knees, um,
Dottie Newton: I've been through withdrawal before man, it's, it's the diarrhea. It's the
Dottie Newton: I'm gonna call it mental anguish, I just break out crying. If he looks at me wrong. You know what I mean. And
Dottie Newton: It's not that he says anything to upset me just, that's all has to look at me wrong.
Jonathan Figg: It's not necessarily
Jonathan Figg: Something wrong. It's just your emotions kind of run run wild. Okay.
Do you sweat.
Dottie Newton: I've not gotten to that part. My, my, my sister.
Dottie Newton: Is in Florida. She is a nurse, so she tells me some of the things I can expect to go through. But, but I've not had shakes or anything like that.
Jonathan Figg: everybody's everybody's withdrawal pattern is different. There's certainly certain symptoms that we find common
Jonathan Figg: That everybody learns differently. So I'm I'm interested to know
Jonathan Figg: How long after your last dose of oxycodone, do you typically start having withdrawal symptoms of any kind. And then how do they progress.
Dottie Newton: I took my last dosage.
Dottie Newton: I want to say like 4pm on Friday.
Dottie Newton: Right.
Dottie Newton: What's hitting Monday.
Dottie Newton: It was
Dottie Newton: It was Saturday.
Dottie Newton: So when the rest of of Saturday without and yesterday, without and
Dottie Newton: I was just
Dottie Newton: Miserable cranky. I can't. I have to literally push myself up with both of my arms get my legs under me
Dottie Newton: The diarrhea has started yesterday which which surprised me. Because when I was in this spot before it wasn't
Dottie Newton: That quick
Jonathan Figg: And who was managing your Sokoto before
Dottie Newton: Um, before Washington
Jonathan Figg: Know before right now.
Dottie Newton: I'm Jane Jacobson and Republic Washington has
Dottie Newton: Or what what
Dottie Newton: She was but she
Dottie Newton: Yeah, she told me she will not prescribe it again because I have a pattern of alcohol abuse in the past.
Dottie Newton: I'm
Dottie Newton: Republic, Washington.
Dottie Newton: Pharmacy.
Dottie Newton: I've been on and abuse since July and has been working wonderfully
Dottie Newton: They can, like, get it here.
Dottie Newton: Right now.
Dottie Newton: And tell me it's on back order till May.
Dottie Newton: So I don't. So that's something else that that's going all over for me right now.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, tell me about your history with alcohol.
Dottie Newton: Um,
Dottie Newton: It's long, long history and I overindulge frequently probably daily
Dottie Newton: Okay, yeah. But then when we decided to come to Washington.
Dottie Newton: Yeah, I think my husband and I both had enough.
Dottie Newton: We were he was drinking. I was drinking
Dottie Newton: So I get on the and abused. He did not need it. He did very well on his own.
Dottie Newton: So we've not been drinking till we got here. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And so are you out of anti abuse now.
Yes.
Dottie Newton: And I don't know what the other medications. I'm taking
Dottie Newton: Here, if there's something else I can take
Jonathan Figg: What
Jonathan Figg: You mentioned you mentioned the gamma Tyson. What else
Jonathan Figg: Do you think
Dottie Newton: Oh my god, I should have. I should have done this. I've got a laundry list.
Dottie Newton: Um,
Dottie Newton: I take Paxil
Dottie Newton: For depression.
Dottie Newton: They just raised that to 60 milligrams a day.
Dottie Newton: I'm
Dottie Newton: I'm taking the generic I gotta walk out to the kitchen, bear with me.
Dottie Newton: My dogs on the left, you can have to move
Dottie Newton: I'm sorry, Dr. V.
Dottie Newton: I'm taking a pronounce this not right. I'm sure divulge Pro X.
Dottie Newton: Do you want to spell that
Jonathan Figg: Out for x. Okay, what's the dose.
Dottie Newton: Yeah, that is
Dottie Newton: My husband just brought this home for me this morning. I can't play and it
Jonathan Figg: Should be
Jonathan Figg: Five to 50 or 500
Dottie Newton: It's five
Dottie Newton: And I take
Dottie Newton: I take that twice a day.
Dottie Newton: And then
Dottie Newton: The Pax, Pax. So we got
Dottie Newton: We got
Dottie Newton: Taking a load of pain.
Dottie Newton: 10 milligrams
Dottie Newton: Once a day.
Dottie Newton: And
Dottie Newton: Oh,
Dottie Newton: That thyroid medication stills starts with an L EV O th
Jonathan Figg: Oops.
Dottie Newton: I'm 175 MCG
Dottie Newton: And products that
Dottie Newton: I've got try am turning HC cheesy.
Dottie Newton: That's 37.5 slash 25
Dottie Newton: Ridiculous. The Gabba pet night debut.
Dottie Newton: And then, and since I
Dottie Newton: Since I don't are
Dottie Newton: Because they don't want me taking so much ibuprofen during the day.
Dottie Newton: My doctor get a prescription for the 800 milligram
Dottie Newton: Three times a day on that.
Dottie Newton: Don't need my pen and paper.
Jonathan Figg: So you say,
Dottie Newton: Oh, and
Dottie Newton: I'm taking anti anxiety pill, um,
Dottie Newton: Can you help me out with that. My husband took the prescription down it or the bottle down this morning, start to be U. S.
Lucifer.
Jonathan Figg: Yep. And is it 1020 or 32 well 1015
Dottie Newton: Come in five
Jonathan Figg: They might. Okay.
Dottie Newton: I'm going to say five twice a day.
Jonathan Figg: That's fine. Okay. Do you think that's all just to make sure and yeah
Jonathan Figg: It's just to make sure, like you said, we want to be sure of our interactions and things like that.
Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: When you were not on the attributes. How many drinks, do you have in a day.
Dottie Newton: A lot. Um,
Jonathan Figg: So how many families a lot a lot to you might be a lot to me or vice versa. So
Dottie Newton: Um, I know it's recommended for when men, but
Dottie Newton: Now, I'd say, five, six.
Jonathan Figg: And what do you drink.
Dottie Newton: Vodka. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So you have five or 652 drinks a day, are they mixed drinks for the shots.
Dottie Newton: Are mixed drinks. Yeah.
Dottie Newton: Vegetable juice, okay.
Jonathan Figg: And since you ran out of. When did you run out of attributes.
Dottie Newton: It's been about
Dottie Newton: I'm gonna say two and a half weeks ago.
Jonathan Figg: Have you started like drinking at that level.
Dottie Newton: I had three bad days since then. Yeah. Oh, not at that level know I've had, I've had on my bad days. And it's really only been about three I've had wine, a couple glasses of wine.
Dottie Newton: Okay, I'm not not getting toasted like that.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: We want to do something about that.
Jonathan Figg: There is a national shortage of entities as I look at libraries pharmacy suppliers.
Dottie Newton: Oh really,
Dottie Newton: I was wondering why they just couldn't ship it in from somewhere else.
Jonathan Figg: So some of the some of the ways so
Jonathan Figg: National shortages don't mean everybody's out of it. It means a lot of people out of it and some people are not
Jonathan Figg: Pharmacy or not. So the question is whether we can find one who has it because if antibodies work well there's every reason to use that
Dottie Newton: Yeah, that
Dottie Newton: Did in fact my, my sister and my daughter were telling me I probably should have been into some kind of therapy with that. And I was like, well, you know, if it was working well. I didn't want to drink. I wasn't drinking
Jonathan Figg: So,
Jonathan Figg: We have a few things that we want to work on. One is I want you to not be in withdrawal from your oxycodone
Right.
Dottie Newton: Is there something else you can give me
Jonathan Figg: So,
Jonathan Figg: You are on a reasonably high dose of oxy codeine and not as functional as you want it to be so. And how long have you been at that dose bicycle.
Dottie Newton: Oh, Jane, just
Dottie Newton: Major that amount here. So I'm going to say maybe maybe three months.
Dottie Newton: Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: I watch for you and before
Dottie Newton: 10 milligrams four times a day.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so it went from 10 to 15 four times. Okay, and
Jonathan Figg: How long have you been on oxycodone in general.
Jonathan Figg: Since 2014 65 okay so 556 years of oxy for them, there is we frequently find that people become tolerant to a specific opioid and to opioids in general.
Jonathan Figg: And we do what's called
Jonathan Figg: Allergies rotation, which means we change the pain medication, not the fact we are doing something about the pain. But what we're using because often while you might be tolerant to opiates. In general, you're more tolerant to oxycodone that you are to something else.
Jonathan Figg: In addition, you've got withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: And five years into opiate therapy you most likely kind of what we call hyper LG to which means hyper sensitivity to pain as the oxy codeine wears off.
Jonathan Figg: So everything hurts worse than it did when it first started
Jonathan Figg: And we and we frequently find that. So one of the things that we often
Jonathan Figg: Try and run it in
Jonathan Figg: As a first line medication would be buprenorphine.
Jonathan Figg: Which is
Jonathan Figg: an opiate
Jonathan Figg: Pain medication. If you think of the actions of opiates in your brain have four main actions one they turn off pain. It's what we want.
Jonathan Figg: To thing cause a high, which we don't want
Jonathan Figg: Three, they can make you sleepy and for they can turn off your breathing. Those last two are dangerous, particularly with some of the other things, right. That's what an overdose is is when you take enough that it stops your breathing.
Jonathan Figg: And all of those are dose dependent. The more you take the more it does those four things.
Jonathan Figg: For what we call a full agonist opiate which means it switches those things fully an oxy codeine is a full agonist opiate
Jonathan Figg: buprenorphine is what we call a partial agonist, which means it's still flips all four of those switches in your brain, but it doesn't push them all away so it still is a good parent lever, particularly for people who have been on opiates for a while.
Jonathan Figg: But it does not cause a high, it does not tend to make people sleepy in the equivalent doses and it has what we call a ceiling effects will be on a certain dose more is not better. It kind of
Jonathan Figg: plateaus at a certain point, and so it is very difficult for people to overdose on so it tends to be a safer opiate and so it's one of the first things that we try and rotate in
Jonathan Figg: And so that would be my suggestion would be to try and get you more functional to get you certainly out of withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: And at the same time try and shift to something that's got a lower overdose potential, especially given the concerns with your alcohol use.
Jonathan Figg: Because alcohol plus opiates can definitely cause overdose.
Dottie Newton: Right now.
Jonathan Figg: I know so and and I want you to understand. None of this conversation is in any way or you know flaws or anything like that. My goal is to get safe and get you out of withdrawing and you fall
Jonathan Figg: And so that would be my first suggestion would be to start young entrepreneurs. Normally when people are already on an opiate we have to have what we call a washout period, which means you have to stop the opiate and for at least 24 hours but you already gone through that.
Right.
Jonathan Figg: The reason for that is because when we start people on buprenorphine. It holds on to the receptor in your brain tighter than other opiates.
Jonathan Figg: And what that means is if you're already on buprenorphine. It will block some of the effects of other opiates. So it's useful from a an abuse potential for that because for people who are abusing opiates it effectively prevents them from getting high.
Jonathan Figg: But if you're already on an opiate like Oxycodone and you take buprenorphine. It will come in and kick the oxycodone out and put you into withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: And that's a bad place to be because if there's nothing you can do except wait it out. And so, but you've already gone through the wash up period. I just want you to kind of understand the way these medications work and why we do things a certain way.
Dottie Newton: What
Dottie Newton: Is he say, and something I didn't know about oxy buzz.
Dottie Newton: You get a certain
Dottie Newton: I don't know, a level where you're used to it.
Dottie Newton: It doesn't do anything more for you.
Jonathan Figg: Is that right, not oxycodone buprenorphine does
Dottie Newton: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: It has what we call a ceiling effect that ceiling effects is high enough that we get a good pain relief.
Jonathan Figg: But from a safety perspective, it's difficult to overdose on
Jonathan Figg: Particularly for people who have been on opiates for a long time beyond a certain dose taking more does not stop your breathing anymore.
Jonathan Figg: So it's difficult to overdose. So that, that's what I was talking about there.
Jonathan Figg: But
Jonathan Figg: So that's the first thing I'd like to start, you probably on buprenorphine and started a low dose and work our way up to try and find an equivalent those they get you more functional.
Jonathan Figg: The second thing I would do. While there are other medications that we can use to decrease
Jonathan Figg: The drive to drink.
Jonathan Figg: This of the impulse and particular usually we're trying to suppress impulsive behavior.
Jonathan Figg: In people because that's usually you know you shouldn't drink.
Jonathan Figg: In right consequences are. But we're human, and we're impulsive and so most of the medications that we use tried to decrease impulsive decision making. But if I'm
Jonathan Figg: If I saw from if Antabuse was really effective for you to kept you from drinking
Dottie Newton: Mm hmm.
Jonathan Figg: And then I would very much like to see if we can find a pharmacy that has it that can ship it.
Dottie Newton: That would be great.
Jonathan Figg: That would be the place that I would start would be by calling Molina because they should have pharmacy contacts.
Jonathan Figg: And most most insurance most ensures have, you know, like a, what we call a retail benefit, which is what they pay for, if you walk into Walgreens, and then they have a mail order benefit, which is when the pharmacy ships. So that would be things like CVS Caremark
Jonathan Figg: And there's a few others, but I would like to start by seeing if we can find a pharmacy that has
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Um, what was the dose of your entities.
Dottie Newton: Oh,
Dottie Newton: That's a very good question. I don't know.
Dottie Newton: What
Dottie Newton: Do you happen to remember the dosage of my interviews.
Dottie Newton: Yeah, that's a, that's a tricky question.
Jonathan Figg: 50 or 500
Jonathan Figg: Yeah.
Dottie Newton: It was a white tablet.
Dottie Newton: I, I really remember.
Dottie Newton: Would they would they put me on
Dottie Newton: If I was drinking heavily, would they put me on the lower dosage.
Dottie Newton: To start out
Hmm.
Jonathan Figg: I mean, we start we start, pretty much everybody on the lower dose and what's the last pharmacy that filled in.
Dottie Newton: I'm Republic drugstore here in Republic, Washington.
Jonathan Figg: So the thing to do is call for you to call that pharmacy and ask them, what was the dose of the
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Because they'll still have the prescription on file. They just can't focus, they don't have it right so
Jonathan Figg: But that would be that would be the thing to do.
Dottie Newton: I'm going to walk around and see if I can find an empty box.
Jonathan Figg: That would be good too.
Jonathan Figg: So, because I would like to start you back on that. And then I would like to get you paired up with individual therapist and bright heart that can help you from the counseling perspective.
Jonathan Figg: You know, we're looking for counseling for pain management. We're looking for counseling for a history of alcohol abuse and to help you with the behavioral aspects of both of those things. So
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And then
Jonathan Figg: The last thing that I would do.
Jonathan Figg: Would be to bump up your cabin Penton
Jonathan Figg: Have you been on a higher than ever before.
Dottie Newton: No in fact I'm
Dottie Newton: Jane Jacobson.
Dottie Newton: She was introduced to us as Jane. So I'm not being disrespectful by calling our first name.
Dottie Newton: Yes, she
Dottie Newton: I'm sorry, tell me that question again.
Jonathan Figg: My question is have you been on a higher dose of the gap of Hampton you're currently on 803 times a day.
Dottie Newton: No, in fact, Jane bumped it up to 800 she told me I wasn't at a maximums you
Jonathan Figg: Right. You're still a
Jonathan Figg: Dab of Hampton. Okay. Does it make you sleepy.
Dottie Newton: No, it doesn't.
Jonathan Figg: So, so, the question that we always the concern that we always have to have when working with medications like this is that they can all make you sleepy.
Jonathan Figg: Actually coding can make you sleepy buprenorphine can make you sleepy gather panting can make you sleepy alcohol make you sleepy boost prone to make you so right, all of these things to make you sleepy and what we don't want is to knock you out.
Dottie Newton: Right. Thank you.
Jonathan Figg: For your breathing. Those are the two things we do not want to do so right you're currently wide awake now could be just because you're in withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: But the it's kind of, I want to understand how you react to some of these things so
Jonathan Figg: You're still not in Mexico. So you could go up to 804 times a day.
Jonathan Figg: Beyond that is kind of it starts just going straight through. You can't absorb it.
Dottie Newton: But yeah, but
Jonathan Figg: Correct beyond, beyond an 800 hours, four times a day. It
Jonathan Figg: Basically starts to go right through you and give you diarrhea. We don't want that. So,
Jonathan Figg: But gamma Penton helps with chronic pain. It helps with nerves that are misfiring and it helps decrease what we call dysphoria, which is just a bad feeling
Jonathan Figg: When you have a history of alcohol use a lot of people who have a history with alcohol when they stopped drinking. They just feel bad.
Jonathan Figg: Because they're not suppressing everything
Dottie Newton: I didn't go through that at all.
Dottie Newton: Yeah.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Began repentance has has some evidence that it can decrease recurrent return to drinking and so it may be useful for several reasons. But, um,
Jonathan Figg: So I don't have any concerns with the gabapentin I do have concerns with the OxyContin for the same reason that she did is with that history, we just, we don't want you to be in a place where you can hurt yourself.
Jonathan Figg: Right, and so I would switch over to the buprenorphine. The way we would do that is to start with. So buprenorphine comes as a sublingual tablets or film. Okay. The film's look like the little breath strips. If you remember them that were popular
Dottie Newton: Oh, yeah, yeah.
Jonathan Figg: And they come in a little foil wrapper and whether it's a film or a tablet. Either way, you take it the same way you put it underneath the side of your tongue and let it fully dissolve. You don't chew it. You don't swallow it, it has to be absorbed through the veins underneath your toe.
Jonathan Figg: Because you're essentially don't absorb it at all. If you swallow it.
Jonathan Figg: And you won't get any of the effect
Dottie Newton: So,
interrupt for just a second.
Dottie Newton: The reason they put me on gab
Dottie Newton: Why I'm even taking that is the third surgery on my knee. They did nerve damage.
Dottie Newton: They told me that would help for the nerve damage because it goes from the back of my knee down to my foot and half of my foot is numb.
Dottie Newton: Okay. Yeah. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So the Gabba Thompson is useful for that. Definitely. Does it work well for that.
Jonathan Figg: Yes.
Dottie Newton: You know, it's hard to say.
Dottie Newton: If amount of oxy I'll take
Dottie Newton: One of my Gabba patents with an 800 milligram ibuprofen.
Dottie Newton: And that kind of
Dottie Newton: Has a settling effect.
Dottie Newton: But yeah i i can't explain. It's like pins and needles in the butter. My foot when I'm off of my pain meds.
Jonathan Figg: So for that kind of pain gabapentin tends to be more useful than opiates, regardless of any opiate they just they're not that good for nerve pain.
Jonathan Figg: They do something. They're just not as effective as other things. So
Jonathan Figg: The gamma panting date. It doesn't tend to do much for numbness not there's not much they can do anything for numbness lack of feeling, but it can usually help the burning sensations, the pins and needles sensations.
Jonathan Figg: The electric shock sensations that various people have, depending on what that nerve is misfiring on so
Jonathan Figg: So that that would be those are some of the things I think would be useful here.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And I'm just looking at various parts of your chart to try and make sure that we take care of everything. Um,
Jonathan Figg: So just to kind of summarize the things that I would do, I would increase your gap of Penton dose again.
Jonathan Figg: From three times a day for or whether you whether you take it three times a day, or four times a day, or whether you know you take it, you know, twice a day to filter or however there's various ways. It just depends on when
Jonathan Figg: The sensation bothers you, the most
High
Jonathan Figg: But I would increase your have a patent from three pills a day before pills today.
Jonathan Figg: I was starting on a prescription of buprenorphine. Like I said, it's a sublingual tablet, I would start you have eight milligrams, I would start you on one a day.
Jonathan Figg: And let you slowly work your way up by half a tablet at a time as you need to. The way we generally do induction for people who are in some level of withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: Is I'm started that dose based on how much oxy code, you were taking. It's a close estimation, there is no perfect conversion because they work differently.
Jonathan Figg: But
Jonathan Figg: The one tablet is likely to stop your withdrawal to a great degree without being so much that makes you drowsy.
Jonathan Figg: Then we're trying to find the balance.
Jonathan Figg: The way you would do this is you would fill it with the pharmacy.
Jonathan Figg: You would take the first tablet dissolve it under your tongue. It usually takes five to 10 minutes to dissolve and then you don't eat, drink or smoke for at least 15 minutes afterwards, just to make sure everything's in there it's absorbed.
Jonathan Figg: And then you wait about two hours and evaluate your withdrawal symptoms, we would start this today.
Jonathan Figg: You would evaluate your withdrawal symptoms to decide, am I still having diarrhea and my still feeling the withdrawal symptoms that I currently or were feeling more do I feel better.
Jonathan Figg: Because if you feel better from those great we at least film The dose. They got you out of withdrawal. If you still have some withdrawal symptoms, then if it's been two hours, you can take another half tablet dissolve.
Jonathan Figg: And then the same thing. Wait two hours reevaluate. Does that make sense.
Dottie Newton: It does.
Dottie Newton: So where are you telling me don't
Dottie Newton: I think I misunderstood. This one part don't smoke, drink or eat until it dissolved or two hour
Jonathan Figg: For at least 15 minutes after you dissolve it
Dottie Newton: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: It's just to make sure everything gets absorbed into your time.
Jonathan Figg: You don't want to wash it down and then not absorb the medication and get no effect and still be able to draw
Jonathan Figg: And then that that's the first the first priority is to get you out of withdrawal. The second priority is to get you more functional. And that's a longer
Jonathan Figg: Course, a time
Dottie Newton: To finish.
Jonathan Figg: Off the dose to get you there.
Jonathan Figg: But
Jonathan Figg: No, but I would start there. And so
Jonathan Figg: Those are the two things that I would start with and then we'll see if we can find your aunt abuse.
Jonathan Figg: It's important to know buprenorphine safer than oxy cotton from an overdose standpoint that mixed with alcohol and things that make you drowsy.
Jonathan Figg: People can still get hurt. So, you know, just the same as oxycodone, so it's not without risk, but it's certainly lower risk and then they actually kind of and I think it's likely to
Jonathan Figg: Do hopefully a better job of getting you functional
Jonathan Figg: As we work through this, my goal would be to get you in as little pain as we can.
Jonathan Figg: In amazing side effects with as much functionality as we can, but
Jonathan Figg: In all likelihood, you still need to go find a maybe a different orthopedic surgeon. If you didn't have such a good relationship, the last one.
Jonathan Figg: To talk about a knee replacement because that's probably the road you're on whether you're at that destination yet is different, but that's probably the road rod.
Jonathan Figg: Because
Dottie Newton: I know. I just don't want to hear.
Jonathan Figg: For most people who are bone on bone.
Jonathan Figg: If that's the level of arthritis. You're at regardless of the other things that most likely causes you significant discomfort. Anytime you're active
Jonathan Figg: At rest it shouldn't hurt much but anytime you're active that's problem and a knee replacement in the overwhelming majority of people at least reduces that
Jonathan Figg: And give them more mobile than they were so
Jonathan Figg: But, but that's that's a conversation for an orthopedic surgeon
Jonathan Figg: So yeah, okay.
Jonathan Figg: What questions or concerns do you have
Dottie Newton: Um, how do you
Dottie Newton: Okay, how do you prescribe medication for me here in Washington.
Jonathan Figg: So I can send it pretty much all prescriptions are sent electronically now.
Jonathan Figg: You know, we don't we don't tend to hand out paper scripts anymore. So just the same way, your other doctors do I can send a prescription to your pharmacy.
Jonathan Figg: You know electronically here. Sure. We have her pharmacies information Republic drug on Clark Street.
Dottie Newton: Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: So that's what we do is I would send a prescription
Jonathan Figg: When is the last time you filled your gap.
Dottie Newton: Um, I do have plenty of that.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, three months.
Dottie Newton: Script. I don't get a three month to your I wish they did.
I'm
Dottie Newton: Think
Dottie Newton: I've probably got ad left
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so you just felt a few days ago. Okay.
Dottie Newton: Okay, yeah.
Wait.
Jonathan Figg: Until you're closer to being out to send a new prescription for that.
Jonathan Figg: Because if I if I send another prescription. It'll confuse the pharmacy to go. She just
Jonathan Figg: Don't want to do that. And when's the last time. Let's see you. You filled your legacy code at the end of March.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Oh,
Jonathan Figg: You're already at oxycodone
Jonathan Figg: So here's a question. How did you go through a month of oxy Conan in two weeks.
Dottie Newton: I'm I did that.
Dottie Newton: I got off schedule my husband's also on oxycodone
Dottie Newton: And I got off schedule by taking two months too much.
Dottie Newton: So we kind of go back and forth, back and forth. So I had to pay him back some of mine.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so you use each other's medications. OK. OK.
Dottie Newton: Now, I'm out.
Jonathan Figg: Gotcha. Okay, so, so you were taking more than four times a day, or for pills a minute.
Dottie Newton: I have. Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, how much, how much were you taken
Dottie Newton: I've taken as much as five and a half, okay.
Jonathan Figg: The it's important, so that I can try and understand how how much buprenorphine. We're going to need
Jonathan Figg: Okay, like I said, there's no judgment in this call and this is what I do for a living.
Jonathan Figg: And many, many people are in similar situations to what you're going through.
So,
Jonathan Figg: So, so up to five and a half or more than that.
Dottie Newton: I'm trying to thank the last
Dottie Newton: The last day of took it.
Dottie Newton: Because I know I was going to take the last one, maybe six
Jonathan Figg: Obviously, OK.
Jonathan Figg: So then, then I would still start you with one tablet of buprenorphine.
Jonathan Figg: But my expectation was you would be you might go up to two tablets to get you fully out of withdrawal.
Dottie Newton: And just decide or call you back.
Jonathan Figg: I said,
Dottie Newton: Do you want me to decide that well.
Jonathan Figg: I'm not going to be able to monitor which all that's going to be up to you. The goal is the goal is that you're not in withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: On the lowest effective dose and what lowest effective dose means is the lowest dose, they get you fully out of withdrawal, not like a little withdrawal left not like I feel a little crappy, but I'll deal with it. Like, not in which all at all.
Jonathan Figg: Like any medication buprenorphine can have side effects and higher doses. So the side effects with opiates. It makes you drowsy can slow your breathing.
Jonathan Figg: It can give you abdominal pain or RJ can give you constipation. I mean, be dry now, things like that. So, you know, the higher dose that we go to
Jonathan Figg: The more likely we are to hit side effects. So we want to minimize the side effects, get you as functional as possible. Each Other withdrawal. Does that make sense.
Dottie Newton: It does.
And
Dottie Newton: Yeah, I want you to know when I was taken. I'm going to get very emotional. Now, and I apologize.
Dottie Newton: When I was taking bills. Yes, he takes the 10 milligrams
Dottie Newton: did take as many as 10 of his in a couple of. It's okay.
Dottie Newton: So that was
Dottie Newton: That it just came to me.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so I yeah like I said, I think we may get up to two
Jonathan Figg: buprenorphine tablets to get you out of withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: But let's start there. Let's get you out of withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: And have your Gavin Penton which should also help
Dottie Newton: And
Jonathan Figg: And work together to get you as functional as we can. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, what questions or concerns you have
Dottie Newton: Struck find out
Dottie Newton: What my dosage of anti abuse was how do I get that back to you.
Jonathan Figg: With it. So the first the first point of contact always for us is our virtual care clinic.
Jonathan Figg: Right, so you have their number
Jonathan Figg: And give
Jonathan Figg: Her zoom number they prefer you know zoom to do face to face stuff.
Jonathan Figg: But it's like the front desk of a medical office so
Jonathan Figg: We would call the front desk of your other doctors offices. That's the first step. I would like to schedule a follow up visit for this Friday.
Jonathan Figg: For us.
Jonathan Figg: So that we can have another conversation, but my expectation is you'll start at one and probably work your way up to to
Jonathan Figg: To get yourself out of withdrawal whatever dose, you get to the gets you out of withdrawal if you if you stop at one great take take one a day if it takes one and a half or two to get you out of withdrawal on the first day that's what you should take the following days.
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And then if you have any questions if you run into any problems, your first point of contact is the virtual care clinic and they can pass on messages directly to me. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. And if if there's something that I need to get back to you about before Friday will try to either schedule another video visit like this, or I'll give you a phone call. If it's more urgent or something like that, but
Dottie Newton: So, so I'll let the virtual clinic know how much
Jonathan Figg: You've
Dottie Newton: Taken and then
Dottie Newton: You'll try to find it nationwide. For me, or how does that work.
Jonathan Figg: I would like you. One of the things I'd like you to do. So there's going to be a little bit of waiting time to get your pharmacy to fill the script. And while we're waiting, if you can call your insurance company and ask them if they have a mail order pharmacy.
Jonathan Figg: And can give you because I don't know which may or your insurance company and the preference would be to us there so that it's covered for you.
Dottie Newton: I'm Martin Molina
Jonathan Figg: Right, so
Dottie Newton: I, I have not paid one dime for prescriptions since we've been here.
Jonathan Figg: The while that's true. If they say for instance. Oh, we use Caremark and then we send a script of silver scripts and they send you medications Molina my kid back and say that was out of network. And I don't want that to be the issue some insurance companies have all sorts of rules.
Jonathan Figg: And now job is to play within the game. Unfortunately, just so that it doesn't cost you money. So what I'd like you to do is call Molina and ask them if they have
Jonathan Figg: A mail order pharmacy that they prefer. And if they say yes. Can they give you the contact info so that you can call the mail order pharmacy and find out if they have to be
Dottie Newton: OK.
Jonathan Figg: OK.
Jonathan Figg: And then if you're if you're successful in that or if you're not let the virtual clinic know
Dottie Newton: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Because if you are successful in the sea. Yes, we have interviews that I can send a script for and if not, then we can work to try and find another pharmacy at the does. I cannot guarantee that we can find it will just try and do our best to
Dottie Newton: Understand
Dottie Newton: I did you have made to start
Dottie Newton: The other medication today a calling that in today.
Jonathan Figg: I'm going to send that script right after we disconnect here.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, and our general expectation is that for most places it gets filled within an hour or so, sometimes their supply issues. If this is not a common medication at the pharmacy feel
Jonathan Figg: Something like that. So what you can do is in an hour, call the pharmacy and say, Hey, were you able to do that. Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: So, you know, or something like that. Let our virtual clinic know so that we can try and find it. Other pharmacy or, you know, fresh new paperwork or whenever
Dottie Newton: You're gonna
Jonathan Figg: But I want you to start it today because I don't want you to be in withdrawal.
Dottie Newton: Have you spell that medication.
Jonathan Figg: Bu TR
Jonathan Figg: TR P as in Paul
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: E N as in Nancy
Jonathan Figg: Uh huh. You are
Jonathan Figg: Oh, are
Jonathan Figg: Okay, G. H.
Jonathan Figg: I N E
Dottie Newton: Cleanup bucks here.
Dottie Newton: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And the brand name that most people call it by this is called sub you tax su BE YOU T rex
T
Jonathan Figg: If you want to Google it. You can find out more.
Dottie Newton: Okay, thanks.
Jonathan Figg: So much. My pleasure. So I'm going to send the script. I want you to go up on your gap of time center for pills a day.
Jonathan Figg: And then we'll try and see if we can find some answers for you. Okay.
Dottie Newton: Perfect. Thank you.
Jonathan Figg: My pleasure. If you run into any questions, please call our virtual clinic. Okay.
Dottie Newton: I will, thank
Jonathan Figg: You, my pleasure. Take care. Have a good. Have a good day.
Dottie Newton: You too. Bye.
Jonathan Figg: Bye bye.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so we're going to start on paper morphine and she's going to increase her does gap repent and we'll see if we can find some ants with us because certainly history of alcohol use.
Jonathan Figg: Is a concern, but it does not make her an appropriate she's still appropriate for
Jonathan Figg: buprenorphine. She does carry diagnoses of both chronic pain left knee pain and opioid abuse on specified during the
Jonathan Figg: Visit I pulled her up for Washington, which shows the last time she filled proxy tone was March 31 412 but she's already out in two weeks, especially was certainly taking more and also paying her husband back just a whole confusing situation.
Jonathan Figg: And I also prepared PR expert at her as a
Jonathan Figg: Questionnaire during
Jonathan Figg: She had a normal mental status. She was emotionally labels of
Jonathan Figg: On her mood.
Jonathan Figg: That's likely her withdraw and she was currently on withdrawal.
Jonathan Figg: And then we'll get her setup for individual counseling as well for both
Jonathan Figg: Alcohol abuse and chronic pain.